# 1868 - MODELING AND SIMULATION OF AUTONOMOUS VEHICULAR SYSTEMS AT ERDC - III VERIFICATION AND VALIDATION OF M\&S FOR AUTONOMOUS VEHICLES 

{% hint style="info" %}
Paper presented at ISTVS 2025 | 55th Conference of the International Society for Terrain-Vehicle Systems
[https://doi.org/10.56884/VZRN23KK](https://doi.org/10.56884/VZRN23KK)
{% endhint %}

**Authors:** _Peilin Song, Burhman Gates, Joshua Fairley_

**Keywords:** Modeling and simulation (M\&S); verification and validation (V\&V); edge case; raining; fogging

**Abstract:**

Modeling and simulation (M\&S) of autonomous vehicles (AVs) for military applications requires rigorous verification and validation (V\&V) processes to ensure the reliability and safety of these systems in complex, dynamic environments. Only properly verified and validated, the Software Integrated Laboratory (SIL) can be used effectively in broader operational scenarios. Once a model that is properly verified and validated in normal cases can be extended to edge cases such as raining, fogging, and dusty conditions. This paper presents an overview of the V\&V efforts of SIL at the U.S. Army Engineer Research and Development Center (ERDC) to simulate autonomous vehicles. As the SIL is hierarchical in nature, we developed a corresponding hierarchical methodology for the V\&V of the SIL across different mission types. This methodology ensures that V\&V is performed at the component level before being elevated to the system level, providing a structured approach to ensure the accuracy and reliability of the simulations. The case study presented in this paper demonstrates the effectiveness and usefulness of the V\&V process developed by ERDC in validating autonomous vehicle systems. The paper discusses the frameworks and processes used to verify and validate these systems, highlighting the challenges and insights gained from applying V\&V practices to autonomous vehicle development.

