# 4558 - IN-SITU SOIL-PROPERTY ESTIMATION AND BAYESIAN MAPPING WITH A SIMULATED COMPACT TRACK LOADER

{% hint style="info" %}
Paper presented at ISTVS 2025 | 55th Conference of the International Society for Terrain-Vehicle Systems
[https://doi.org/10.56884/M9KLDUH0](https://doi.org/10.56884/M9KLDUH0)
{% endhint %}

**Authors:** _W. Jacob Wagner, Ahmet Soylemezoglu, Katherine Driggs-campbell_

**Keywords:** Autonomous Earthmoving; Soil-Property Estimation; Physics Infused Neural Networks; Robotics; Terrain Mapping

**Abstract:**

Existing earthmoving autonomy is largely confined to highly controlled and well-characterized environments due to the complexity of vehicle-terrain interaction dynamics and the partial observability of the terrain resulting from unknown and spatially varying soil conditions. To overcome these restrictions and facilitate development of more robust autonomous earthmoving, a soil-property mapping system is proposed to extend the environmental state.

A GPU accelerated elevation mapping system is extended to incorporate a blind mapping component which traces the movement of the blade through the terrain to displace and erode intersected soil, enabling separately tracking undisturbed and disturbed soil. Each interaction is approximated as a flat blade moving through a locally homogeneous soil, enabling modelling of cutting forces using the fundamental equation of earthmoving (FEE). Building upon our prior work on in situ soil-property estimation, a method is devised to extract approximate geometric parameters of the model given the uneven terrain, and an improved physics infused neural network (PINN) model is developed to predict soil properties and uncertainties of these estimates.

A simulation of a compact track loader (CTL) with a blade attachment is used to collect data to train the PINN model. Post-training, the model is leveraged online by the mapping system to track soil property estimates spatially as separate layers in the map, with updates being performed in a Bayesian manner. Initial experiments show that the system accurately highlights regions requiring higher relative interaction forces, indicating the promise of this approach in enabling soil-aware planning for autonomous terrain shaping.

