# 4579 - ANALYSIS OF PASSENGER TIRE-SALTED PAVEMENT INTERACTION: A TRACTION PERSPECTIVE 

{% hint style="info" %}
Paper presented at ISTVS 2025 | 55th Conference of the International Society for Terrain-Vehicle Systems
[https://doi.org/10.56884/JF3254YB](https://doi.org/10.56884/JF3254YB)
{% endhint %}

**Authors:** _Erin Fenton, Zeinab El-sayegh_

**Keywords:** Tire Mechanics; Vehicle Dynamics; Terramechanics; Smoothed Particle Hydrodynamics; Finite Element Analysis

**Abstract:**

This paper introduces a novel approach for investigating the interaction between a passenger car tire and salted pavement. A passenger car tire size 235/55 R19 was modelled within a Finite Element Analysis (FEA) software called Virtual Performance Solution (VPS) using 28 layers including solid, layered membrane, beam and shell elements. The modelled tire was validated in static and dynamic domains using manufacturer-provided data. The salt used to sit on top of the pavement was modelled using Smoothed-Particle Hydrodynamics (SPH) techniques and calibrated using shear-strength test. The salted pavement–tire interaction required the use of node-to-segment contact algorithm with edge treatment to ensure no penetration between the salt particles and the tire elements. The focus of this paper is to investigate the tractive efforts of the driven tire over the salted pavement under different operating conditions. The operating conditions include vertical loads of 3.5 kN, 5 kN, 8 kN and a nominal inflation pressure of 228 kPa at constant angular velocities equivalent to longitudinal speeds of 10 kph, 50 kph and 100 kph. To understand the impact salt has on the driving conditions of icy roads several tests including a 57 mm, 114 mm and 171 mm salt depth was selected to understand the impacts of the amount of salt on a surface. This study provides insight to the use of road salt in the winter months in Canada. As road salt is crucial in winter climates it is important to understand the implications that salting pavement will have on the performance of passenger car tires through advanced computational techniques. By understanding the implication salt has on different pavements affected by winter a deeper understanding of safety, and tire traction performance can be achieved.

